HOW TO USE THE PROGRAM:

EBAC Calculator takes in basic information (SEX, WEIGHT(lbs), #DRINKS & 
TIME ELAPSED) and calculates the estimated Blood Alcohol Content (BAC), 
the amount of time needed to pass before you can drive, and the amount 
of time until you are sober.

Remember, this is only a rough estimate, as the program uses the average 
metabolism rate, and does not include many other factors (listed below 
in the ABOUT section) that affect your BAC.

The program will do basic checks (right values for SEX, numeric checks 
for the other fields), but if you put in the wrong values, you can 
repeat the process.

Any popup box labeled "Warning" or "Info" will not stop the program. Any
popup that is labeled "Error" will terminate execution.
 
The program buttons funtions as follows:
    [OK] - Processes the values from the form and displays the results.
    [CANCEL] - Clears/resets all fields and switches.
    [HELP] - Displays this screen.
    [QUIT] - Terminates the program
    
The [AGREE] and the agreement checkbox work in tandem. When you process
and get results from a calculation, you must agree to the terms before
either quitting the program or continuing on with processing.

When you check the agreement box, the [QUIT] and [AGREE] buttons will
become available. This is done only to make sure that you understand
that the results cannot be used in a court of law, and is only provided
as a guide to help you make better choices regarding drinking, either
by you or a friend or house guest.  


ABOUT THE ESTIMATED BLOOD ALCOHOL CONTENT CALCULATIONS:
This blood alcohol content or BAC, for short, calculator can estimate 
your blood alcohol levels. Metabolism, body fat percentage and 
medication are some of the other factors that can affect the rate of  
absorption by the body, and these are not considered in this calculation.

Blood alcohol content (BAC) can be estimated by a method developed by 
Swedish professor Erik Widmark in the 1920s.

Gives the estimated BAC (EBAC), algorhithm reduced as:
    EBAC=A/(r*Wt)*1.055-B*T 
Where:
    EBAC: Estimated Blood Alcohol Content (%)
       A: Alcohol consumed (in ounces to grams) or FLoz
       r: Ratio of body water to total weight (men: .68, women: .55)
      Wt: Body weight (in pounds to kilograms)
       B: Rate alcohol metabolized (men: .019/hr, women: .017/hr)
       T: Time alcohol in blood or time since consumption began
   1.055: Constant value of density of blood

 The formula can also be reduced as follows (called the 8/10 formula):
    For Men:   EBAC = 7.97*A/Wt-B*T
    For Women: EBAC = 9.86*A/Wt-B*T 

Blood alcohol content (BAC) or blood alcohol level is the concentration 
of alcohol in the bloodstream. It is usually measured as mass per 
volume. For example, a Blood alcohol content BAC of 0.04% means 0.4% 
(permille) or 0.04 grams of alcohol per 100 grams of individuals blood. 
Use this BAC Calculator for informational purposes only, and not to 
drink and drive or drink and work.

Important Note: There is no BAC calculator that is 100% accurate. This 
is due to the number of factors that come into play regarding the 
consumption and alcohol processing rates of different people. Factors 
include the gender of the drinker (biologic, not identity), their 
differing metabolism rates, various health issues, and the combination 
of medications and supplements that might be taken by the drinker, 
drinking frequency, amount of food in the stomach and small intestine 
and when it was eaten, elapsed time, and other factors. The best that 
can be done is a rough estimation of the bloodstreams alcohol content 
or the BAC level based on known inputs.

Every state in the U.S. has a legal Blood Alcohol (BAC) limit of 0.05% 
or 0.08%, (depending on the state you are driving in). Most 'states 
also have lower legal BAC limits for young and inexperienced drivers, 
professional drivers and commercial drivers. Sentences for drunk 
driving include imprisonment, large fines, lengthy drivers license 
suspension and/or revocation, house arrest, community service, DUI 
schools, alcohol treatment programs, vehicle forfeiture and ignition 
interlock restrictions. 






